---
title: Installation and setup
layout:  col-sidebar
altfooter: true
tab: true
order: 2
tags: Nightingale
---
# Installation and Setup

Welcome to the Installation and Setup guide for Nightingale! In this guide, we will walk you through the process of building and running the Nightingale Docker image, as well as providing some additional Docker tips and tricks to help you get the most out of this powerful open-source tool.

### **Prerequisites**

Before getting started, you will need to have the following installed on your system:

* [**Docker**](https://www.docker.com/)
* [**git**](https://git-scm.com/)

### **Docker Image Build and Run**

* Take a clone of the Nightingale repository by running the following command in your terminal

```bash
git clone --depth 1 <https://github.com/RAJANAGORI/Nightingale.git>
```

This command will download the latest version of the Nightingale repository to your local machine.

* Change the directory to Nightingale by running the following command:

```bash
cd Nightingale
```

This will navigate you to the Nightingale folder on your local machine.

* Build the Docker Image by running the following command:

```bash
docker build -t rajanagori/nightingale .
```

This command will build the Nightingale Docker image with the tag `rajanagori/nightingale.`The **`.`** at the end of the command tells Docker to use the `Dockerfile`in the current directory.

* After creating the Docker Image, log in to the image and start using Nightingale by running the following command:

```bash
docker run -ti --hostname nightingale  rajanagori/nightingale /bin/bash
```

This command will run the Nightingale Docker container in interactive mode and will give you the terminal access to the container. The **`--hostname`** flag sets the hostname of the container to **`nightingale.`**

* To access Nightingale's interactive terminal using a browser, run the following command:

```bash
docker run -it -p 0.0.0.0:8080:7681 -d rajanagori/nightingale /home/binaries/ttyd -p 7681 bash
```

This command will run the Nightingale container and map port 8080 of the host machine to port 7681 of the container. It also runs the \*\*`ttyd`\*\*command inside the container which allows you to access the container's terminal via a web browser by visiting **`http://localhost:8080`** in your browser.

* To run MobSF along with Nightingale, run the following commands:

```bash
docker run -it -p 0.0.0.0:8080:7681 -p 0.0.0.0:8081:8081 -d rajanagori/nightingale /home/binaries/ttyd -p 7681 bash
cd /home/tools_mobile_vapt/Mobile-Security-Framework-MobSF/
source venv/bin/activate
./run 0.0.0.0:8081 &
```

This will run the Nightingale container and map ports 8080 and 8081 of the host machine to ports 7681 and 8081 of the container respectively. The second command runs MobSF inside the container by activating the virtual environment and running the **`run`** command.

* To bind your host machine directory to your container directory, use the following command:

```bash
docker run -it -p 0.0.0.0:8080:7681 -p 0.0.0.0:8081:8081 -v /<your_host_machine_directory_path>:/<your_container_directory_path> -d rajanagori/nightingale /home/binaries/ttyd -p 7681 bash
```

This command will run the Nightingale container and map ports 8080 and 8081 of the host machine to ports 7681 and 8081 of the container respectively. It also binds the host machine directory specified in `<your_host_machine_directory_path> to the container directory specified in <your_container_directory_path>`. This allows you to access the files in the host machine directory from inside the container, and any changes made to the files in the container will be reflected in the host machine directory as well.

### **Additional Docker Tips and Tricks**

* To see a list of all running containers, use the command **`docker ps`**. To see a list of all containers, including stopped ones, use the command **`docker ps -a`**.
* To stop a running container, use the command **`docker stop <container_id>`**.
* To remove a container, use the command **`docker rm <container_id>`**.
* To see the logs of a container, use the command **`docker logs <container_id>`**.
* To open a shell inside a running container, use the command **`docker exec -it <container_id> /bin/bash`**.
* To stop all running containers, use the command **`docker stop $(docker ps -q)`**.
* To remove all containers, use the command **`docker rm $(docker ps -a -q)`**.

#### Need some more tips and tricks

*   **Persist Data**: You can use Docker volumes to persist data generated by the container even if the container is deleted. This can be useful for storing the results of penetration testing.\


    ```bash
    docker run -ti -v <host_directory_path>:<container_directory_path> rajanagori/nightingale /bin/bash
    ```
*   **Run Multiple Containers**: You can run multiple Nightingale containers in parallel by specifying different ports for each container. This allows you to run multiple penetration testing tasks at the same time.\


    ```bash
    docker run -ti -p <host_port1>:<container_port1> -p <host_port2>:<container_port2>  rajanagori/nightingale /bin/bash
    ```
*   **Run in Detached Mode**: You can run Nightingale containers in detached mode by using the **`-d`** option. This allows you to run the container in the background and continue to use your terminal for other tasks.\


    ```bash
    docker run -d -p <host_port>:<container_port>  rajanagori/nightingale /bin/bash
    ```
*   **Use Environment Variables**: You can use environment variables to configure Nightingale, such as specifying the location of a configuration file. This allows you to easily switch between different configurations without having to rebuild the Docker image.\


    ```bash
    docker run -e <ENV_VAR>=<value> -p <host_port>:<container_port>  rajanagori/nightingale /bin/bash
    ```
*   **Automate with Docker Compose**: You can use Docker Compose to automate the process of building, running and managing multiple containers. This can be useful for setting up a testing environment with all the required tools in one go.\


    ```bash
    docker-compose up
    ```

    This command will automate the process of building, running, and managing multiple containers defined in a \*\*`docker-compose.yml`\*\*file.&#x20;
*   **Access the host machine from the container**: You can access your host machine's files and network from inside the container by using the **`--network host`** flag when running the container. This can be useful for performing testing on the host machine's network.\


    ```bash
    docker run --network host -p <host_port>:<container_port>  rajanagori/nightingale /bin/bash
    ```
*   **Use `--rm` flag while running container**: This flag will automatically remove the container when it exits, so you don't have to worry about cleaning up after yourself.\


    ```bash
    docker run --rm -p <host_port>:<container_port>  rajanagori/nightingale /bin/bash
    ```
*   **Use --name flag while running container**: This flag allows you to specify a name for the container, making it easier to identify and manage.\


    ```bash
    docker run --name <container_name> -p <host_port>:<container_port>  rajanagori/nightingale /bin/bash
    ```